- In your first position as a software developer,
you'll encounter some differences
between how the workplace operates
and what you experienced in the classroom setting
where you developed your technical skills.
These differences create a bit of a learning curve
for software developers
entering their first work environment.
The first major difference is how you access the tools
and resources necessary to do your work.
In your learning environment,
you were able to freely install different tools
on your personal workstation
and establish access to resources
like code repositories on GitHub.
Most corporate environments will enforce security policies
that limit the permissions on your workstation
and that restrict your access to only the resources
required for your position.
It's known as least privilege.
This means you'll need to submit requests for approval
to install different tools or to access the code
or documentation for your project.
Nobody likes to wait,
but organizations are serious about security.
So, quickly learn where to obtain the resources
you need to perform your work
and how the approvals are granted.
How you contribute source code to your team's project
will also look a bit different.
Teams normally establish a workflow
that prevents commits directly against
a source code repository.
You'll need to learn this workflow,
which will likely involve submitting poll requests
against a shared branch of the code,
which will then be subjected to a code review
by a peer prior to being merged.
Don't take a code review personally.
It's a best practice
that will give you the opportunity to collaborate with
and learn from the other members of your team.
On advanced teams,
automated builds will be used to compile,
test and verify your source code
once it's merged into a shared branch in the repository.
While learning to code,
it's likely that you were not writing tests
for your small, personal projects.
So, you'll need to become familiar
with the testing frameworks
for the language used in your workplace.
If the automated test do not pass
or your code doesn't meet the quality standards
during the automated build,
you'll need to revisit your source code
before it's released.
One way to avoid this is to run the test locally
on your machine before committing your source code
to the shared repository to be released.
That's another area where the workplace is different.
In the workplace,
your code changes will be promoted
through multiple environments.
Normally, the first release
is to the development environment,
which is like a test lab for the development team
to try and experiment with new ideas.
If everything looks good in development,
the changes are promoted to a user acceptance testing,
or staging environment,
where business users verify the changes to the system.
Once those changes are approved for release,
they will be shipped to the production environment
where the live product runs
and actual users work in the system.
This is typically done through automation
or manually by a senior developer.
As a best practice,
most companies will restrict access
to this environment to prevent any mishaps
that could cause an outage or data corruption.
If you find yourself in a company
that does grant production access to developers,
always be incredibly careful in this environment
and work within an experienced developer
until you're comfortable operating independently.
I can't emphasize this enough.
Be careful here.
A major mistake in production
can unfortunately lead to your dismissal.
Being aware of these differences
between the work environment and the classroom,
helps you know what to expect in your first position
and can help you guard against
making any major mistakes as you gain more experience.